You are listening to a message from First Baptist Church, Wichita Falls.
For more information about First Baptist, click the link in the show notes or go to FBCWN.org.
Wow, what incredible music.
Thank you.
Thank you very much for that in so many ways.
I am here to come to speak to you, but I'm the one who got blessed this morning.
So thank you.
Thank you very much, pastor.
Thank you for the invitation.
I have been looking forward to coming here for weeks and how blessed you are to have a pastor who knows just how important this doctrine of creation is.
It's the very foundation for the doctrine of God and you are blessed to have leadership in this church who wants to see that today.
We're going to do something a little bit different.
We're going to do a whiteboard talk.
You might be up there on the screen behind me on that.
There it is.
It's on the whiteboard.
You can see it there and we're going to move around it.
You'll see it'll move like that.
I've got markers up there and I've got an eraser and I've got all those kinds of things.
So we'll go through this really quick and we're going to cover three important questions that you and every one of you should probably have an answer to.
They're from a debate, a debate I did in California a couple years ago with two other organizations, BioLogos, headed by Catherine Applegate, and another one called Reasons to Believe, and the man I debated there was Mr. Fuzzrana, and I represented the Institute for Creation Research.
It was moderated by Sean McDowell, and he asked us to cover three important questions.
Number one, how do you interpret
and understand Genesis 1 and 2.
That's a good question.
Someone might come to you and say, how do you interpret?
And how do you understand Genesis 1 and 2?
Number 2 was another good one.
What is your take on Darwinian evolution and kind of like question 2B, its compatibility with Christian faith?
And then finally, are you open to the natural world pointing to design?
Are you open to the natural world pointing to design?
That's kind of the science-y question there.
So since I knew everybody was interested in the science, and I was in California, so I get to be a little counter-cultural there, I start with question number three first.
Question number three first.
So up there on the screen, you'll see, we'll move on the screen there, and I have this ability to pick up that marker and write really fast.
There it is.
Question number three.
Are you open to the natural world pointing to design?
Well, I am from the Institute for Creation Research, so my answer will be what?
Yes, of course, it's yes, yes it is.
So here's an answer to that question right there.
Yes, period.
The intelligent design and the workmanship seen in living things is best explained by intelligent design.
That's the answer to that.
And I picked that word, workmanship on purpose.
That's a biblical word.
You know, in Psalm 19, one, it says, the heavens declare the glory of God.
And the firmament shows us what is handy work in his workmanship.
And in Romans chapter 1, verse 20, it says, invisible things of him, the Creator, are clearly seen being understood by the things that are made.
That Greek word that we translated in the English word there made is used only one other time in the New Testament in Ephesians chapter two, verse 10, where it says, we are His workmanship created in Christ Jesus.
So I say, when you look at creatures, you see workmanship.
When you look at this little clicker in my hand that I advanced my slides with, do you see workmanship?
Of course you do.
What you're looking at is multiple parts working together for a purpose.
Only human things, only intelligence puts us together.
Now, when you look at me, do you see multiple incredible parts, phenomenal parts working together for a purpose?
The answer is, man, that wasn't a joke.
That was like a statement of fact right there.
You see these parts working together for a purpose.
So I could talk about all kinds of science-y things, but let's talk about the one that really matters.
Adaptation.
Boom.
So you're going to see some things which you have not seen before and what you did not get taught in your biology classes.
There is a challenging environment on the screen.
That's a cave.
And you'll see two fish there.
One of them lives on the surface.
It's got pigmentation and eyes.
And you'll see the other one which is blind and hypopigmented.
What would you do if you're one of those surface fish and you got washed into that cave?
How would you live in that cave?
Well, these fish live because they can change.
They change from that surface fish over to that other kind of fish and they move into that very quickly.
You were taught in school that that's due to random genetic accidents called mutations, which are fractioned out due to struggles to survive.
I'm here to show you that these fish were built
They were engineered upfront.
They were programmed upfront in order to fit into those caves.
And we're going to take on several of the major icons of evolution.
Because as I read scientific literature today, and I read several papers a day, I am not reading words like undirected or purposeless.
When I read about adaptation, these are the words that I'm reading from the scientific papers regulated, in fact, highly regulated.
Not slow, but rapid, repeatable.
Sometimes adaptation is even reversible, and the changes are so targeted that they're even predictable.
Now, when you're reading those words, you're reading something that is highly, highly engineered.
So let's take on three major icons that you were taught in evolution in the first disease, cavefish.
I read in several papers that evolutionists claim to take two to eight million years to go from a surface type of fish to the cavefish.
Well, there's actually over 200 in some species of fish that when they go into a cave, they go blind.
And a paper came out in 2013, which demonstrated clearly that these fish, as you can see there up on the screen, as those people who really like to science it, put the paper up their form, these fish on the right-hand side can go from sided to blind when treated with a chemical that mimics the cave water that they're in
not in eight million years, not in two million years, but in one generation.
A single generation, and we're doing research on this fish, and I can show you that they can actually regain their pigmentation, not in a thousand years, but in about 32 days.
Now, as I'm doing this debate, I'm watching my opponents.
How are they going to respond to this?
Because I know they've never really heard this because they're not really keeping up on the literature.
Icon number two was this one.
finches.
Whose finches are called Darwin's finches?
And you were taught that they get these big beaks and these small beaks, because you saw it in your biology textbook, due to struggles to survive.
That it goes from dry seasons to rainy seasons, big seas to get big beaks, small seas to get the small beaks.
Well, that's also totally wrong.
Researchers have now been able to follow two populations of these finches in the Galapagos Islands.
The ones that live out in the rural area, they're called the traditional finches.
They eat traditional finch food.
And there are some that have migrated in close to human beings.
And they eat the food that humans throw out their windows or out their car or things.
They're called the urban finches.
And they found that these birds, beaks, can change in as little as two generations.
two generations, and not only that, there's other changes with these birds that enable them to live closer to humans and to be better adapted to living to humans.
And as it says that on the bottom right hand side of the screen, the growing evidence suggests that epigenetic mechanisms are changing this and allowing these birds to rapidly and very purposefully change it.
Now everything that you were taught in school said that you have to have changes to your genes, genetic changes.
Epigenetic changes are changes with another area of regulation which regulates when these genes are expressed while these birds are still in the egg.
Well, they're still in the egg.
So that they can purposefully change towards these things.
Another major icon that you learned about in school was these moths, these peppered moths.
And you were taught that they had the white moths.
And then when the British people began to burn a lot of coal and they put soot
all over their buildings and things, the white moths stood out like a sore thumb and that the birds picked them off and due to struggles to survive that they gradually morphed into the black form wrong again.
In 2016, a paper came out and demonstrated that this was not the case at all.
As I mentioned before, there are other regulations on your genes and your DNA is not static.
In fact, your DNA can change in real time.
And there's tiny little machines which can go along the chromosome and they can cut out a piece of DNA and they can translocate it into another place and paste it in.
And in this particular case, when they paste in that piece of DNA at just the right spot, these moths hatch from the egg and they're black.
And over 96% of the black moths have this piece.
of DNA transposed in and 0% of the white moths.
This is completely contrary to everything you're taught.
This is up to the latest information coming from it.
And I'm watching my opponents to see how they're going to respond to this.
And you know what?
They never did respond to these things throughout the entire debate because these are things that they were not aware of.
And these are things that you may not be aware of, but what they're showing is these creatures were engineered by the Lord Jesus Christ from the beginning of creation in order to adapt to different environments so that they can be fruitful, multiply, and fill the earth.
That's not the only changes.
Here's another one that's really cool.
If you were to go up to Minnesota where I went to medical school, they love to go ice fishing.
And they love to catch a big old fish like this.
It's a predatory fish called a pike.
Now that thing will eat a bass, it'll eat a trout, but it'll also eat one of these carp.
And as it shows that are on the picture, when it eats one of those carp and it digests it and it puts those little carpy vapors into the water, the other carp in the lake can detect that their cousin has been eaten.
And within 24 hours, their shape begins to change.
Not 24 million years, 24 hours.
And they go from the top on the right-hand side of the screen, and they shape to look like the one on the lower side within 24 hours, making them taller, bigger, and faster, and harder to get.
Regulated, rapid, purposeful changes that you were never taught about because they don't fit the narrative.
Not only that, there's another fish.
This one lives down in the Caribbean.
It's called a rass, a reef rass.
And the male is that brightly colored one, one that's kind of bluish and green, and the female is the yellow.
But there's usually not just one female.
There's usually like one male for 10 to 15 of these females.
And this one male keeps them all covered, so to speak.
Well, what happens if that male dies?
Or what happens if a fisherman comes by and fishes that male out of that school?
What are those lonely females to do then?
Well,
They have sensors and they have logic built into them and they can detect that the male is gone and they can also detect which one of the females is the biggest and within 24 hours her ovaries regress, she grows testes and she morphs into a male.
Wow, that's quite remarkable.
Incredibly remarkable.
Highly programmed changes for all of these things.
Not only that,
just to give the males equal time here.
This is an interesting experiment.
Look at that headline.
Mice can warn sons and grand sons of danger via sperm.
Now, this was an interesting experiment.
This is, by the way, your tax dollars at work.
They took male mice.
They put them on a metal pad that could shock their feet painfully but not lethally.
And they would expose them to cherry blossom odor and shock their feet.
Expose them and shock them, expose them and shock them.
And they did this repeatedly, and then they took these male mice and they made it them with females that had never been exposed to cherry blossom odors.
She had pups, and they sacrificed the pups immediately upon birth, and they stained them through the olfactory region looking for bulbs and nerves.
They're stained blue.
And what you see up on the left-hand side of the screen are bulbs and nerves for controls whose dads were never exposed to cherry blossom odor.
But on the right-hand side,
are the pups of the dads who were exposed to cherry blossom odor.
There's over a 200% increase in the olfactory bulbs and the nerves specific for cherry blossom odor.
Hm, highly purposeful regulated changes that enable these creatures to fill the earth.
Again, I'm waiting for how my opponents are gonna respond to this.
I mean, they tell people very authoritatively things, but they never responded to this.
And this is real science.
This is their chance to respond to it.
But they never responded to it throughout the entire debate.
So contrary to mutation in all this mystical force of natural selection, this is what you're really seeing.
You're seeing creatures that have features just like a cruise control can adapt to things.
These creatures have sensors.
These creatures have built-in logic that says, if you detect this, then you respond to this, and many, many times it's during development while they're still in the egg or in mother's womb.
And not only that, they have a way to respond that is highly purposeful.
This is an engineered system.
This is an engineered system that gives them capabilities upfront before they ever face these challenges.
This is showing the wisdom
and the genius and the power of the Lord Jesus Christ.
This is not a purposeless, random thing that you were taught in school.
It's just the exact opposite.
And the entire weight of scientific evidence is coming out to show this kind of adaptation.
This is engineered, and this is what really gives glory to the Lord Jesus Christ.
So from this day on, the light should go on.
And you should no longer see creatures as this passive modeling clay being shaped and molded by their environment.
No, no, no, no.
Creatures were endowed by the Lord Jesus Christ within eight capabilities, in eight capabilities, to detect the challenges, solve those challenges, to be highly active organisms that enable them to be fruitful, multiply, and fill the earth.
just like he commanded from the beginning of creation.
Wow.
That was the science that I presented, and throughout the audience, there were multiple wows.
They were hearing things they hadn't heard before, and I was waiting for my opponents to respond to this, and they never did.
Never did respond to any of these things during the debate.
So, with that science out of the way,
with the science that was causing a stumbling block for so many people out of the way, I was ready to go on to question number two.
What is your take on Darwinian evolution and its compatibility with Christian faith, compatibility with Christian faith?
Well, here's a good answer.
Darwinian evolution is a weak scientific theory, and it is a poor explanation for the design that we see in living things, which is what it's supposed to do.
Not only that, the basic premises, the basic premises, the things that you cannot escape evolutionarily are incompatible with, and I added a word there, biblical Christian faith, incompatible with biblical Christian faith.
So, I have to back it up.
Why would I say it is a weak scientific theory?
Well, it's a theory of biology so that you have to get life going,
And you realize there, and here's the pictures I put up on the screen, that nobody, nobody on this planet has a clue of how life started by natural processes.
And I said it during the debate, I said it at University of California, Berkeley, there is not a scientific paper published anywhere on this planet, anywhere on this planet, which documents a natural origin of life.
And if my opponents believe this is true, all they need to do is show me the paper or at least give me the reference for the paper.
This is a pretty definitive statement.
Not a paper published anywhere which documents it.
And my opponents never produce such a paper, never came out at UC Berkeley.
It wouldn't come out at the University of Texas at Austin.
It wouldn't even come out at Texas A&M University.
It wouldn't come out that the University of Tennessee, nowhere would they have such a paper.
Not only that, if evolution is true, you have to be able to change one creature to a fundamentally different kind of creature, a fundamentally different kind of creature.
And in all of human experience without a single exception, in all of human experience, all we have ever seen is creatures faithfully reproduce
after their kind.
Exactly as the Bible says, not a single exception.
In fact, there is not a scientific paper published anywhere on the planet which documents by observation and testing one creature changing into a fundamentally different kind.
All they ever document is that creatures faithfully reproduce after their kind.
So that's why it's a weak scientific theory.
There were completely wrong on that.
They predicted that life would start out simple and divide out over to complex forms over time so that you would find all the major body plans in the upper rock layers.
But when you go to the lowest rock layers, you find all the body plans already there.
You and I were told in school this, this kind of tree that you see there on the left.
But what you really see is what you find on the right.
You're also told in school
Things like this, that your appendix was a worthless vestigial organ and evidence of evolution totally wrong.
When I was in medical school in the early 1990s, I already knew it had a function and they already showed me that it had tissue from your immune system in the appendix.
It acts like a little sentinel there at the junction of your small and large intestine, sampling things and adjusting the microbiome.
You can live without it, but it has a function.
The bone that you are sitting on right now, you were told as a tailbone.
It was a worthless vestigial organ.
But in gross anatomy, I could see that there were important muscles of your pelvic floor anchored to it.
And if anybody believes that this is a worthless vestigial organ or a structure, our ministry will pay for you to have it removed.
But you will have to pay for the diapers you'll be in for the rest of your life.
Well, I was told that as little babies develop in embryos, they have gills.
Let's have these folds on their neck.
Totally wrong.
In med school, they develop into your lower jaw.
They develop in your thyroid, parathyroid glands, and things like that.
Never have gills tissue in them.
DNA that scientists didn't have an idea of what the function was.
I was told it was junk.
In evidence revolution, why would God put something junky in there?
Totally wrong.
Subsequent research has shown that it has function and it regulates other DNA.
And you and I were told that humans and chimps were 98, 99 percent genetically identical.
Totally wrong on that.
Recent research has come out and research that our ministry has been doing for over a decade shows that we're only between 80 to 85 percent similar to chimps.
So it's a weak scientific theory because things that they tell us over and over again are wrong.
Of course, I wait for my opponents to rebut any of the things I'm saying and they never rebut those things.
It's a weak scientific theory because when I was a kiddo, I was told that Neanderthals were these hairy ape men type of things.
That's what I grew up thinking.
So easy a caveman could do it.
Now I know that humans and Neanderthals mated with each other and probably everybody in this room has Neanderthal DNA in your genome.
It's a weak scientific theory because it relies so much on imagination.
Look at the picture on the screen there, the right-hand side.
That's an artist's rendition of the famous fossil Lucy.
That's the artist's rendition.
Looks really human-like.
You know why?
Because that's propaganda.
I mean, if you really, if you put lipstick on that creature right there, she would look an awful lot like an okey.
You know, that is...
That is so true on that.
But on the left-hand side of the screen are the bones.
The bones.
We have people heading up organizations leading people down a path to believe certain scientific things.
And all they have is just a ton of imagination.
Nobody would do that again.
That's the 1970s wrong in 2015, Home on the Lady came out.
And again, you have your propaganda pictures on the left.
of what these creatures are supposed to look like, but there's the bones on the right.
These are weak scientific theories because they infuse vast amounts of imagination.
Wow, I'm waiting for the rebuttals and they never came.
But what about its compatibility with Christian faith?
Well, the story is told by these two people, way back in the 1960s, Lois and Mary Leakey, they've since passed away, but they set the narrative for human evolution, which is either atheistic evolution or theistic evolution.
And some of the players have changed over time, but the narrative is essentially the same, that we evolved from some ape-like ancestor.
Well, how does their story compare to this biblical narrative?
Well, first of all, the Bible says here in this book that when Adam was created, he was a direct creation by God.
God took dust to the ground and directly formed Adam and directly breathed into his nostrils of breath of life.
Not only was Adam a direct creation, Eve was a direct creation.
Took something from Adam's side and directly made Eve.
Theistic evolutionists say that's totally wrong.
that we evolved from some ape-like ancestors.
These were not direct creations by God.
The Bible says that Adam was the first human, the first human, and Eve was the first woman.
Theistic evolutionists say that's completely indeterminate.
We don't even know exactly which ape-like line we descended from, and therefore you cannot point who was the first Adam.
The Bible says that you and I and everybody on this planet directly
descended from Adam and Eve.
Theistic evolutionists say that is totally wrong.
They say you can't get the genetic diversity in the human population unless we evolve from a population of 10 to 100,000 individuals.
Totally ignoring that God could have created diversity in the genome right from the beginning.
Incompatible with those things.
The Bible also says that there was a real man named Adam who really did sin
And he really brought death to everybody on this planet so that everybody here needs a real savior.
Real Adam, real sin, real death, real savior.
Theistic evolution is completely incompatible with that.
And most creationists stop there, but I'm gonna give you two other reasons why it's incompatible with Christian faith.
What you see there up on the left-hand side of the screen
Most of us have grown numb to the struggle to survive, but evolutionists believe that.
That is the means to good.
They believe that struggle to survive is how we got all of the higher animals, and that's what they're teaching your kiddos there.
Steve Jobs, when he's given a commencement address at Stanford University, even says, as he's dying from pancreatic cancer, death is very likely the single best invention of life.
Its life's change.
agent.
But you know that's not what the Bible says.
The Bible says death isn't the best invention of life.
The Bible says death is a curse.
The Bible says death is an enemy.
The Bible says death is what the Lord Jesus Christ came to destroy and it is not the means to good so that what you see on the left hand side of the screen there which we have kind of grown numb to
is going to go away someday, and the lion will lie down with the lamb, and I from one am waiting for that to be gone.
And I hope you are too.
Not only that, the Bible says that creation is clearly seen.
And what you see there on the left-hand side of the screen are tiny microscopic little gears.
They connect the backlaves of an insect called a plant hopper, and when he launches himself, those legs have to extend at the same time.
at the same rate.
So that creature's creator, the Lord Jesus Christ, engineered tiny microscopic little gears.
And the Bible says that is clear, clear evidence of a creator.
That when you see gears, there was a gear maker.
Theistic evolutionist and my opponents, particularly by a logo say, no, that looks like it looks like it was engineered, but it really wasn't engineered.
It's not clearly seen, they would say.
They would tell you to suppress this natural instinct that said this was created and believe that it happened through random genetic changes and struggles to survive.
How ridiculous.
The Bible says this is clear.
So no, this thinking is not compatible with biblical Christian faith on all of these reasons that the Bible is talking about.
Now, having dispatched with the scientific objections and the biblical objections, let's get to question number one.
How do you interpret and understand Genesis one and two?
Boom, boom, boom.
If I could pound the pulp, but this is so important.
Genesis one and two, and your pastor's gonna preach on Genesis three, which includes the fall, are historical narratives.
They're real history, not mytho history, not allegory.
It is real history.
So if you're taking notes, real history, real history,
Real history of what?
Real history of how God created the natural realm.
And how do I interpret Genesis one and two?
I give words that are in normal meaning, in their normal context.
That's what I was taught at Moody Bible Institute.
I interpret this book like I interpret any other piece of literature.
I was a medical doctor in the Air Force, and before that I was an engineer in the Navy.
And one of the contracts I had when I was stationed in Guam was to rehabilitate a barracks.
And the contract clearly said, clearly said during this rehabilitation that the contractor shall apply two coats of paint.
Two coats of paint.
Well, the contractor came in, applied one coat and left.
We said the contract says two coats.
And on the bottom right hand side, the contractor sent us on a letter and said, what the contract means is one coat
thick enough to equal two coats of paint.
And he had put on a thick coat of paint.
We said, no, what the contract means is two coats of paint.
And this went to court.
This went to court.
The government and your tax dollars won.
The judge said, in contract law, words must be construed to what?
their normal meaning and the context of the specification, otherwise the intentions of either party becomes unknowable.
If you can make words mean anything you want them to mean, then the words really don't mean anything.
So may I suggest when you pick this book up, contrary to what people are going to tell you, you give words, their normal meaning and their normal context, and my two opponents
will not do this.
They'll say it's inspired, but where we really differ is, can you trust the words?
Can you trust the words as written?
Oh, this was so important.
This was a reformation issue.
These great reformers pushed back against the church at the time because the church said, this book is a little mystical and you, you, you, you can't understand it, but I'm a holy man.
I'm a priest.
I can understand it and I will tell you what the book says.
That made the priest your authority and not the book.
They pushed back and said, wrong.
Look at all these verses.
For the Lord Jesus said, when the Holy Spirit has come, He will lead you into all truth.
You don't need a priest.
You just need to give words their normal meaning and the Holy Spirit will lead you to what this says.
And in Acts chapter 17, it says,
that the Bereans were more noble than the Thessalonians, and they were searching the Scriptures themselves checking out the Apostle Paul.
Many of your Christian ancestors died for this.
They said, you don't need a holy man to tell you what the Bible says.
And now we're backing up.
There are certain groups who want to back up and say, well, you may not need a holy man, but you definitely need a science guy.
to tell you what the Bible says.
And all the science guys and all the science that they point to are atheistic science.
Totally wrong.
That is why I give words their normal meaning and their normal context.
And not only that, the Lord Jesus did as well.
He should know.
When someone asked him, is it lawful for a man to divorce his wife?
He said, have you not read?
Have you not read?
And then quoting from Genesis chapter one, he said, from the beginning of the creation, not after millions of years, but from the beginning of creation, God made them male and female.
And then quoting from Genesis chapter two, he said, therefore shall a man leave his father and his mother and cleave to his wife, and the two shall become one flesh.
One flesh.
He knows.
He gave the words their normal meaning and their normal context.
And when the Apostle Paul was speaking on the resurrection from the dead, he refers to Adam by name.
In 1 Corinthians 15, he says, for since by man came, death by man came also the resurrection of the dead.
For as in Adam all die, even so in Christ shall all be made alive.
The Lord Jesus gave words their normal meaning, the apostle Paul gave words their normal meaning, the apostle Paul believed in a real Adam, the Lord Jesus believed in the real Adam, and they know.
And that's why I give the words their normal meaning.
So in a quick Sunday school type of lesson, you have now been educated on these three important fundamental questions.
But there's another question which is even more fundamental and more important than this.
has nothing to do with this.
Paul says there's only two groups of people on this planet, not rich people and poor people, not white people and black people, only two groups.
Those who are in Adam, dead, lost in their trespasses and sins with no hope and without Christ in this world, and those who are in Christ, redeemed, saved, born again,
anticipating a close relationship with Him and the Father.
Where are you today?
That's the final question.
Are you still in Adam?
Or are you still in Christ?
I'm not a member of this church, but I can say on behalf of the pastor and everybody else for you.
You today, consider the things that I said.
Consider those things and come
to Christ, come to Christ today, and He will give you life.
You've been listening to a message from First Baptist Church, which is all false.
For more information about First Baptist, including gathering times and locations, click the link in the show notes, or go to FBCWF.org.
We'll see you next week.